https://www.fordham.edu/academics/academic-resources/writing-center/our-services

# Writing Center Services

The Writing Center offers a range of writing support services to Fordham students and instructors. For individual students, we offer both **In-Person Tutoring Sessions**, meaning that you will be physically present in one of our WCs and meet your tutor face-to-face; and** Online Synchronous Tutoring Sessions**, meaning you will have a one-on-one video chat with your tutor at the time of your appointment. We encourage you to select the modality that best serves your schedule and needs. We also offer **Standing Appointments** for students who wish to work recurrently with the same tutor. For instructors, we offer **Classroom Visits** to introduce WC services and** virtual Workshops** on specific writing-related topics.

**How in-person appointments work: **When you make an in-person appointment, you will report to the physical Writing Center location you signed up for online. Your tutor’s location (either Rose Hill or Lincoln Center) is listed next to their name in the scheduler. Make sure that you go to the right location! When you visit us in person at either Walsh Library (Rose Hill) or Quinn Library (Lincoln Center), you may bring a hard copy of your paper and assignment/prompt or digital versions.

**How online synchronous appointments work:** If you choose an online synchronous appointment, you will be speaking with one of our excellent tutors in real time via our online Writing Center system.

If you wish to meet online, make sure to select the option “Yes. Schedule Online Appointment” under the “Meet Online?” heading in the appointment pop-up window. All students are welcome to make appointments with any tutor they choose, based on availability, regardless of home campus.

To ensure a successful synchronous appointment, we ask that you take several steps. When you make your appointment, you have the option to upload your paper and assignment/prompt. You will be able to join your tutor via the online meeting system in your appointment box on our website. In other words, when your time approaches, log back in and click on your appointment box. In the pop-up window you'll see the following option: START OR JOIN ONLINE CONSULTATION. Click on that and a new window will open where you will be able to talk and see your tutor. When you join the meeting, please make sure your computer's speakers and camera are turned on. You and your tutor can then use video chat, paper upload, copy and paste, and other online functions to look at your paper together.

**How standing appointments work: **If you enjoy working with a particular tutor and wish to continue working with them you can choose to set up a standing appointment. At the end of your session, please email Writing Center Director Dr. Elisabeth Buck ([[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#21444354424a1661474e534549404c0f444554)) with your recurring appointment request. Standing appointments help you maintain continuity and steadily work towards long term goals. They’re also helpful if you are working on a lengthier assignment that may take a few weeks to complete.

**How classroom visits work:** If you are an instructor who wants to inform your class about the Writing Center, you can ask us to schedule a classroom visit. One of our tutors will visit your classroom and introduce the Writing Center and the services we offer to your students in a short (approximately 10-15 minute) presentation. To set up a class visit, please email [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#b4c3c6ddc0dddad3d7d1dac0d1c6f4d2dbc6d0dcd5d99ad1d0c1). In your email, please include your classroom location(s), preferred date(s) for a visit, and meeting time(s).

**How workshops work:** We facilitate monthly virtual workshops for the Fordham community on various writing-related topics. If you would like to learn more about workshops or request our current workshop schedule, please contact [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#a6d1d4cfd2cfc8c1c5c3c8d2c3d4e6c0c9d4c2cec7cb88c3c2d3).