https://www.fordham.edu/academics/departments/environmental-science/about-us/facilities

# Facilities

The Department of Biological Sciences has instructional laboratories located in Freeman Hall and research laboratories in Larkin Hall on the Rose Hill Campus. Larkin Hall contains laboratories equipped for broad-based research employing modern technologies for research in cell and molecular biology, entomology, conservation biology, cytogenetics, ultrastructure, microbiology, and neurobiology.

Most instructional laboratory space for the Department of Chemistry is located in John Mulcahy Hall on the Rose Hill campus. Facilities include four recently renovated laboratories used for teaching General Chemistry and Organic Chemistry Lab. A fifth newly renovated Biochemistry laboratory is used jointly by the Departments of Biological Sciences and Chemistry, and a sixth is used for teaching Analytical Chemistry.

The Department of Physics routinely offers Environmental Physics and Geology lab courses in a laboratory located in Freeman Hall. The equipment includes instrumentation to measure solar power, air and water pollution, radon gas and other radioactive threats. The department also owns a complete set of geology samples and advanced equipment to measure heat flow, energy use, and thermodynamic efficiency. The Department of Physics also maintains a fully equipped, staffed, machine shop that can provide services for research projects.

The Department of Natural Sciences is located in the Lowenstein Building of the Lincoln Center campus. The department has laboratories available for instruction and faculty-supervised independent research projects. Chemistry laboratory courses offered by the Department of Natural Sciences are taught on the Rose Hill campus.

The Louis Calder Center is the biological field station of Fordham University, and supports education and research by students and faculty at Fordham, as well as scientists from other institutions in the region and nationally. The 113-acre station is a protected, forested preserve with wetlands, a lake, and small streams, 45 km north of New York City. No other full-time ecological research field station exists within the metropolitan area. The station provides students opportunities to conduct experimental manipulations in natural ecological systems in proximity to the most populous urban region in North America. The station is the middle site of a 130 km forest-urbanization transect, the Urban-Rural Gradient Experiment (URGE), and monitors the longest running ecological field study of Lyme disease and tick populations in the nation. The Louis Calder Center is also the site of the annual Calder Summer Undergraduate Research program (an NSF-REU Site), where students from across the nation reside and study in close collaboration with Fordham faculty members at the station each summer, and conduct independent research projects.

The Fordham University Seismic Station is located in the Rose Hill campus and is part of the National Seismic Network. The station has a state of the art broadband seismometer and also houses a strong motion detector under a USGS program to assess earthquake risk remediation in large metropolitan centers. Data from the station is streamed to the USGS data repository in Boulder Colorado. Fordham is also a member of the regional Lamont Cooperative Seismic Network which covers most of New York and New Jersey. Students in the Environmental Science program will have access to ten years of high quality digital seismic data for research purposes by virtue of Fordham's membership in these networks. In addition, equipment such as geophones and seismometers would be available for local research projects on loan from the Fordham Seismic Station or from the Lamont Cooperative Seismic Network.