https://www.fordham.edu/academics/research/office-of-research/newsletters/spring-2025-newsletter/fordham-joins-the-ai-alliance

# Spring 2025 Newsletter Fordham Joins the AI Alliance

Initiated by IBM and Meta, the AI Alliance was established in 2023 as an international community of leading technology developers, researchers, scientists, academic institutions, companies, and other innovators collaborating together to advance open, safe, and responsible AI. Its founding members include prestigious universities and corporations, including AMD, Dell Technologies, Boston University, Harvard University, MIT, NASA, University of Notre Dame, Yale University, and others. The AI Alliance is focused on fostering an open community and enabling developers and researchers to accelerate responsible innovation in AI while ensuring scientific rigor, trust, safety, security, diversity and economic competitiveness. Fordham faculty can pool resources and knowledge while using this platform for sharing and developing solutions that fit their needs in AI research.

Fordham has proudly accepted IBM's invitation to join the global AI Alliance. Our membership in the [Skills & Education focus area ](https://thealliance.ai/focus-areas/skills-education)will allow members of Fordham's academic community to partner with other Alliance members in projects which develop and leverage resources made accessible through the AI Alliance. One project that IBM cited as a deciding factor in Fordham’s membership application was our upcoming International Conference on Im/migration, AI and Social Justice on March 10 and 11, 2025. In tandem with other Alliance members, Fordham researchers, faculty and students could join forces to develop educational content and resources to inform and educate on the benefits, risks, and solutions for AI.