https://www.fordham.edu/academics/departments/theatre/faculty/adjunct-faculty/carlos-armesto

# Carlos Armesto

CARLOS ARMESTO is the Producing Artistic Director of theatreC, a company dedicated to creating unique theatrical experiences, as well as the CEO/Co-Executive Artistic Director of PITCHBLACK Immersive Experiences, an international company that creates sensory theatre in complete darkness. He has worked as a director and producer on festivals, plays, musicals, concerts, and events around the country. Mr. Armesto was an Associate Curator at the inaugural Pittsburgh International Festival of Firsts and Associate Artistic Director at The Ensemble Studio Theatre (EST).

Through theatreC, which celebrated its 11th anniversary last November, he has created over 50 theatrical works. Notable credits include THE WHO'S TOMMY (Best Director, Star Ledger's NJ Tonys 2010), BINDING (Best Choreography, Solo Performance and Performance Art Piece - Innovative Theatre Awards 2010), ECHOES OF ETTA at Joe's Pub (MAC Award for Outstanding Cabaret Act 2014), and ODD MAN OUT (The Flea Theater, NY Times Weekend Pick). He has directed, taught, and consulted for several university programs, including Carnegie Mellon School of Drama, Rutgers Theater Company, Fordham University, NYU's Drama Department, the Graduate Musical Theatre Writing Program and Sarah Lawrence Graduate Theatre program. Currently under development: ODD MAN OUT, (with PITCHBLACK and Bristol Repertory Theatre), CO-FOUNDERS, DIA Y NOCHE (LAByrinth Theater), and MARTIAN CHRONICLES. He is also Creative Director for Theatre C's LGBTQ+ Party Series RETRO FACTORY. MFA Directing Carnegie Mellon. BS Chemical Engineering & Theatre MIT. SDC. Princess Grace Award.