https://www.fordham.edu/academics/research/office-of-research/newsletters/fall-2023-newsletter/staff-update

|
Dear Colleagues, It is with great pleasure that we announce the appointment of Rebeca Franco as the Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs at Fordham University, effective March 27, 2023. Ms. Franco has been serving as the Director of the Sponsored Programs Administration, Office of Science and Research at New York University Langone Health since 2018. She has provided leadership, planning, assistance, and support for all aspects of pre and post-award sponsored research and sponsored programs administration. She also served as a research expert for research finance/accounting related items on award setup, oversaw the negotiation of highly complex budgets proposed to extramural sponsors, directed and established priorities for day-to-day operations, and conducted strategic planning to align with research administration and research leadership. In addition, Ms. Franco reviewed and submitted applications in compliance with institutional and sponsor guidelines to federal and non-federal sponsors for extramural funding. Prior to joining NYU Langone Health from 2008 to 2018, Ms. Franco served as Director of Operations at the Center for Health Equity and Community Engaged Research in the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, where she was in charge of all research administration, grants and financial management for the Center. She also served as project director at New York Physicians Against Cancer in the Teachers College, Columbia University. She received her Master of Public Health in 2001 from Boston University with a concentration in Epidemiology and her Bachelor of Science in 1999 from Manhattan College with a major in Biology and Spanish. She has published research papers and delivered research presentations in the fields of cancer screening, epidemiology, racial disparities, and end of life care in cancer. An innovative and versatile senior administrator with proven expertise in research management and operations, Ms. Franco has extensive experience with multi-site research studies and a proven track record in management, training, and mentoring. She has comprehensive knowledge of federal regulations and experience in managing compliance and interpreting and applying university and sponsor policies and procedures. We would like to thank the search committee members for their comprehensive, effective, and successful participation in the national search: Tihana Abiala, Associate Director for Research Initiatives, Office of Research; Jason Munshi-South, Professor, Louis Calder Center & Department of Biological Sciences; Rogel Nuguid, Grants Officer, Office of Sponsored Programs; Beth Torres, Manager, Office of Sponsored Programs, and Tiffany Yip, Professor, Department of Psychology. From the outstanding candidates, Ms. Franco emerged as the clear leader best prepared to take the Fordham Office of Sponsored Programs to new heights. We also would like to express our appreciation for Ms. Deborah Adwokat, Senior Manager-Talent Management, who provided effective support and professional advice on behalf of Fordham Human Resources. Please join me in enthusiastically welcoming Ms. Franco as she assumes her new role. She can be reached at [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection). George Hong, Ph.D. Chief Research Officer and Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs
|