https://www.fordham.edu/gabelli-school-of-business/alumni/audit-a-class/selection-of-courses-offered-in-spring-2026

# Selection of Courses Offered in Spring 2026

**Although we feature a select number of classes below**, you may also [view a complete list of courses offered this term.](https://reg-prod.ec.fordham.edu/StudentRegistrationSsb/ssb/term/termSelection?mode=courseSearch) Be sure to look for classes that are **affiliated with the Gabelli School of Business** and search by the correct term. Here is how to search for classes:

- Select Spring 2026 as the term.
- Use code “GBA” to search for available graduate courses or “GSB” to search for available undergraduate courses.
- Once you have selected a course or multiple courses,
[fill out this form and submit it for approval](https://fordham.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1QTfkZ1Ry4A5Rwa)to be accepted.

We will verify your alumni status, confirm your seat with the professor, and request payment of $450 to secure your place. Once your fee is paid, we will provide full class details. *The deadline to submit your form for approval is Monday, January 5, 2026. Once submitted, you should hear back in approximately five business days.*

**Below is a sampling of some of the most popular courses offered for Spring 2026.**

-
**CMBU-4412-L01****CRN: 52471****Course Title: Special Topic: Understanding Audiences/Users****Professor: Ronen Shay****Day/Time: Tuesdays, 11:30 a.m. - 2:15 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

Understanding Audiences and Users examines how media audiences/users of digital media are measured, what we know about audience behavior and effects, and related ethical and policy questions. The course covers the challenges and techniques of measuring audience and user behaviors, including how this has changed and is still changing. Measurement systems studied include those used for “mass” media such as television, as well as digital and mobile media. It also explores what we know about how people use, and are affected by, various media. The class also tackles the regulatory and ethical questions that surround audience and user measurement, including questions of privacy, trust, and consent.**CMBU-4413-L01****CRN: 42547****Course Title: Digital Media & Promotional Communication****Professor: Lori Greene****Day/Time: Tuesdays, 8:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

Digital Media and Promotional Communication focuses on how companies, organizations, and individuals are using digital media to communicate and connect with all of their various stakeholder groups, including consumers. As the media environment changes with new technological capabilities to distribute and retrieve messages, companies promotional communication strategies must adapt as well. This course seeks to understand this media environment and apply it to the decision-making involved in a promotional communication context in terms of both message content development and message placement. Students will analyze digital media campaigns that companies have conducted in terms of their promotional communication brand goals. They will also develop their own digital media promotional communication campaigns. This course is examined through theoretical and practical means applied to current events and people affecting the world today.**CMBU-4470-L01****CRN: 52472****Course Title: ST: Business of Media and Entertainment****Professor: Scott Douglas****Day/Time: Mondays, 6 - 8:45 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

An introduction to the substantive business operations and media economics issues in the publishing, broadcasting, recorded music, new media and film industries. A required project links the course to the student's specific business discipline.**CMBU-4489-R01****CRN: 50557****Course Title: ST: Manage Diversity in Media****Professor: Allie Kosterich****Day/Time: Wednesdays, 8:30 - 11:15 a.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

Today’s media managers find themselves at a critical moment in which audiences and communities are rapidly becoming more and more diverse. Managing diversity as a media executive comes with unique considerations that extend beyond the employee composition of the firm, as both audiences and the content distributed play a role in maintaining diversity and inclusion. In this course, students will learn about how to better understand the race, ethnicity, and cultural backgrounds of media audiences; the social, political, and economic effects of creating content that features diverse topics, casts, and themes; and the value of having a diverse workforce of artists, producers, and managers. Over the course of the semester, students will develop a strategic diversity plan for a real-world media firm that includes a stakeholder register; PEST analysis; business need and justification; diversity goals and metrics; and specific recommendations, actions, and tactics with which the firm should proceed.**CMGB-75AA-001****CRN: 46355****Course Title: Media Executive Playbook****Professor: Russell Fink****Day/Time: Wednesdays, 5:45 - 7:45 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Graduate Business Course**

This course will take an in-depth look at the strategies, plans, and programs developed and implemented by media industry executives to help their businesses survive and thrive in an increasingly changing and competitive media industry environment. The course will include case studies, topic-specific projects, and reviews of current industry trends, issues, and opportunities. Media industry executives and subject matter experts will be asked to guest lecture certain classes to provide a practical perspective about how to address and solve industry challenges. The class will look at the business’ audience and marketplace dynamics, content offerings, media distribution and delivery platforms, branding, marketing, business models, and operations. We will also review how a business’ mission, vision, strategic plan, goals, strategies, priority initiatives, operating plans, financials, etc., create a successful business. The course includes lectures, discussion and guest speakers along with current articles and other readings, video materials, and digital sources. Whenever possible, the course draws on Fordham’s unique setting in New York City, the media capital of the world. -
**FNBU-4468-L01****CRN: 42563****Course Title: Healthcare Finance****Professor: Jonathan Reese****Day/Time: Thursdays, 5:45 pm - 7:45 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course will present a historical development of the American healthcare system and will address the current challenges faced by both health insurers and providers, specific to managed care, reimbursement methods, and contracting. Students will learn to apply the standard tools of financial analysis and financial management in the complex and evolving setting in which the global healthcare system is currently situated. Students will also learn how to analyze the key financial indicators specific to hospitals and their direct application towards managed care contracting initiatives, debt restructure and bond rating status. -
**BLBU-4452-R01****CRN: 41745****Course Title: Special Topic: Securities Law****Professor: Brent Horton****Day/Time: Mondays and Thursdays, 10 - 11:15 a.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course offers an intensive introduction to the Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act of 1934, i.e., the laws that govern the offering of stocks and bonds by corporations. Topics to be covered include: (1) the definition of a security; (2) the initial public offering (IPO); (3) private placements; (4) the obligations of those that possess material non-public information; (5) material misstatements in filings; and (6) civil remedies. -
**LPBU-3226-R01****CRN: 42300****Course Title: Exploring Entrepreneurship****Professor: Dennis Hanno****Day/Time: Wednesdays, 11:30 a.m. - 2:15 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

An introductory course that allows students to discover and grasp the nuances of entrepreneurship—particularly how to think, feel, and act differently to achieve entrepreneurial success, the three cornerstones of the Entrepreneurship program. Using a variety of reading assignments, case studies, and interactive projects, students will learn how to identify and evaluate potential business ideas, push the limits of their imagination and creativity, challenge the status quo, and learn to embrace change.**LPBU-3227-R01****CRN: 48560****Course Title: Innovation and Resilience****Professor: Julita Haber****Day/Time: Mondays and Thursdays, 2:30 - 3:45 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course focuses on the process of innovation, including the resilience required to weather inevitable ambiguity, risk, mistakes, and even failures along the journey. Topics include: identifying opportunities, managing creativity, evaluating ideas, decision-making in uncertain environments, and resilience.**LPBU-3446-E01****CRN: 42303****Course Title: Special Topic: Social Entrepreneurship****Professor: Michael Pirson****Day/Time: Tuesdays, 6:30 - 9:15 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course discusses ways of creating social value through the principles of entrepreneurship. Social entrepreneurship is a rapidly developing movement that is blurring the boundaries between government, business, and the NGO sector. Social entrepreneurs are individuals with innovative solutions to society's most pressing social problems. Rather than leaving societal needs to the government or business sectors, social entrepreneurs find what is not working and solve the problem, spread the solution, and change the system by persuading entire societies to take new leaps. We study examples of successful social entrepreneurs, such as Mohammad Yunus (Noble Laureate, 2006), and identify patterns that promote positive social change. We will also engage in Social Business Plan writing based on the students' project ideas.**LPBU-3452-R01****CRN: 47056****Course Title: Special Topic: Mindful Leadership****Professor: Sophia Town****Day/Time: Wednesdays, 11:30 a.m. - 2:15 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course offers students understanding and application of mindful strategies for leaders. The curriculum provides knowledge of how the brain works, how emotions and conflict can disrupt critical thinking, and frameworks for successful collaboration. Students learn about self-reflection, self-regulation, and how mindful leadership can be applied in a variety of professional and global contexts. Mindful practices serve as a foundation for dialogue, collaboration, and change.**LPGB-7637-001****CRN: 48053****Course Title: Entrepreneurial Mindset****Professor: Dennis Hanno****Day/Time: Thursdays, 5:45 - 7:45 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Graduate Business Course**

This is a non-traditional entrepreneurship course based on experiential learning: learning by doing. It is an introductory course that enables students to discover and grasp the nuances of entrepreneurship, and in particular, how to think, feel, and act like an entrepreneur. At a high level, students will be introduced to the risks and rewards, as well as the challenges and opportunities, of entrepreneurship and being a change agent; however, the emphasis will be on developing the framework of a new venture—from identifying and building out an idea to delivering an impactful pitch. -
**MKBU-3461-E01****CRN: 45297****Course Title: Special Topics: Sustainable Fashion****Professor: Frank Zambrelli****Day/Time: Mondays, 6:30 - 9:15 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

This course delves deeply into the principles that define sustainable business, as well as the impact areas that are considered both the cause, and areas of cure, within fashion’s environmental, social, and economic footprint. It is through this greater understanding of the forces in sustainability that a more comprehensive set of strategic decisions can be considered in the planning and marketing of business within the fashion industry’s transforming reality. Through using different readings, cases, and assignments, students will master the analysis of more deeply structured marketing strategies that filter decisions through a broader lens of people, planet, and profit.**MKBU-4451-E01****CRN: 47983****Course Title: Special Topics: Data-Driven Marketing Decision****Professor: Mohammad Nejad****Day/Time: Tuesdays, 6:30 - 9:15 p.m.****Location: Rose Hill Campus****Undergraduate Business Course**

The course aims at offering students advanced analytical marketing and decision making tools in order to help them solve typical marketing managerial situations. It will allow students to simulate data driven marketing decisions and formulate sound recommendations. The course will deal with lectures that will immediately be applied to case studies and in-class exercises.**MKGB-7765-001****CRN: 51606****Course Title: Sales Management****Professor: Ancy Joseph****Day/Time: Mondays, 11 a.m. - 1 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Graduate Business Course**

This course focuses on personal selling and sales force management in the context of large and small organizations. It examines the sales process and its relationship to overall marketing strategy, evaluation of sales force performance, and the function of sales manager. Explore such topics as sales planning, forecasting, recruiting, selecting, motivating, and compensating a sales force.**MKGB-7785-001****CRN: 52068****Course Title: Marketing Strategy****Professor: Hooman Estelami****Day/Time: Tuesdays, 5:45 - 7:45 p.m.****Location: Online****Graduate Business Course**

Presents an integrated framework on how company marketing decisions can be guided by the environment in which the company is operating, the company’s own strengths and weaknesses, and the future prospects in the marketplace. Provides a synthesis of current research findings on strategic marketing theory through the text and other material, and put theories into practice by the students through the use of computer simulations and case analyses. Enables students to develop the techniques needed to optimize marketing activities related to pricing, advertising, distribution and product development. -
**SAGB-76BW-001****CRN: 52112****Course Title: Navigating AI Disruption****Professor: Navid Asgari****Day/Time: Saturdays and Sundays (Two weekends), 9:30 a.m. - 6:30 p.m.****Location: Lincoln Center Campus****Graduate Business Course**

In today’s rapidly evolving technological landscape, artificial intelligence (AI) and generative AI are reshaping industries and redefining competitive advantage. This intensive course is designed to equip forward-thinking leaders with the knowledge and skills to understand and navigate these powerful forces of disruption. Students explore distinct strategies for managing technological change, engage with new case studies, and apply their learning to real-world scenarios in the gaming industry—a sector on the cusp of disruption by AI.