https://www.fordham.edu/resources/libraries/library-services/electronic-information-center

# Electronic Information Center

The Electronic Information Center (EIC) is located on the lower level of the Walsh library. The EIC features a computer lab (room 047) and 3 multifunction rooms (rooms 050, 044, 041). All of these rooms have A/V systems and presenter podiums with computers and laptop connections for instructional presentations. Faculty and administrators can reserve these rooms through the [25Live](https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/fordham) system. Reservations for individual class teaching are restricted to five reservations per class per term. In addition, no reservations are taken during the last three weeks of the semester. The EIC area also features a large open seating and lounge area with many public use printers and scanners and a public service desk for technical support and borrowing of media, cables and chargers. The Flom Auditorium and the EIC-TV video production studio are also part of the EIC. The Flom is an excellent presentation space with seating for 111 and featuring live streaming of events, video conferencing, video recording and a large stage area.

The EIC-TV production studio is based on video over IP technology and features an 800 square foot studio with virtual sets, LED lighting and 3 cameras with teleprompters. There is also a post-production suite and an additional small production space with a single camera for individual recording. In keeping with the Library's mission of collecting and preserving records of human knowledge and creativity the video and television production facilities in the Walsh Library provide support services for collaborative work with faculty and the university administration. In addition, the EIC-TV staff capture, catalog and preserve important lectures, conferences, distance learning modules, and other events taking place within the University and the surrounding New York City community. Many originally produced video resources are accessible online via the Library’s Digital collections and through physical media at the EIC service desk.