https://www.fordham.edu/student-life/deans-of-students-and-student-life/student-handbook/university-regulations/a---z-listing/distribution-of-literature

# Student Handbook: Distribution of Literature

The policy for outside agencies differs from that for students and their registered organizations.

- Outside agencies are required to have the written permission from the Dean of Students or designate for such distribution. Where permission is granted a place for distribution is assigned, table and chairs provided, and the normal assistance and courtesies extended.
- Registered student organizations often distribute information in the form of handouts, fliers, and newsletters at events and during Fordham's traditional "tabling" at reservable spaces in the McShane Campus Center, Lowenstein Plaza, and 140 West Garden Lounge during specified hours. As with any other club or organization activity, these events must be coordinated with the Office for Student Involvement and/or the Assistant Dean/Director of Student Involvement. The source of the material and the name of the organization must be stated. The organization and the individual students participating are held responsible for ensuring that no University policy is violated
**(including relevant University Regulations including those related to**and that there is no justified complaint on the grounds of obscenity or libel.[Solicitations](/student-life/deans-of-students-and-student-life/student-handbook/university-regulations/a---z-listing/sales-and-solicitations-and-credit-card-marketing/)and[Course-Based Businesses](https://www.fordham.edu/student-life/deans-of-students-and-student-life/student-handbook/university-regulations/a---z-listing/course-based-businesses/)) - Individual students, if sponsored by a University club, office, or department, are similarly free to distribute, with the same responsibilities as student organizations and in coordination with the Offices for Student Involvement and in compliance with the Sales and Solicitation policy.
- Distribution in areas around campus such as classrooms, in academic buildings, in the library, in any way that interferes with other activities, and door-to-door in the residence halls is not permitted.
- There are special regulations governing candidates for student government offices during the period of campaign and elections. These are adopted by the United Student Government in consultation with the Offices for Student Involvement.
- The placing of handouts or flyers on automobiles parked on campus is prohibited as it draws attention to automobiles that are not used every day, thus making them easy prey to vandals.