https://www.fordham.edu/academics/departments/psychology/about-us/research-lab-groups/mood-and-behaviors-lab/mood-and-behaviors-publications-and-presentations

# Mood and Behaviors Publications and Presentations

**Selected Publications**

- Rabasco, A. & Andover, M.S. (2021). Suicidal ideation among transgender and gender diverse adults: A longitudinal study of risk and protective factors.
*Journal of Affective Disorders, 278,*136-143*.*[https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2020.09.052](https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2020.09.052) - Corcoran, V.P. & Andover, M.S. (2020). Online disinhibition and internet communication of non-suicidal self-injury.
*Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior.*[https://doi.org/10.1111/sltb.](https://doi.org/10.1111/sltb.12659)12659 - Rabasco, A. & Andover, M.S. (2019). The interaction of dissociation, pain tolerance, and suicidal ideation in predicting suicide attempts.
*Psychiatry Research*.[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2019.112661](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2019.112661) - Jurska, J., Corcoran, V., Andover, M. (2019). Nonsuicidal self-injury and compulsive disorders. In J. Washburn (ed.),
*Nonsuicidal Self-Injury: Advances in Research and Practice.*Routledge. - Andover, M. S., Schatten, H. T., Morris, B. W., Holman, C. H., & Miller, I. W. (2017). An intervention for non-suicidal self-injury in young adults: A pilot randomized controlled trial.
*Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 85,*620-631*.*doi: 10.1037/ccp0000206 NIHMSID: 933611 PMID: 2841448 - Andover, M. S., Schatten, H. T., Morris, B. W. (2017). Suicidal and non-suicidal self-injury in borderline personality disorder. In B. Stanley & A. New (eds.),
*Primer on Borderline Personality Disorder.*Oxford Publications. - Brackman, E., & Andover, M. (2017). Non-suicidal self-injury. In D. McKay, J. Abramowitz, & E. Storch (eds.),
*Mechanisms of Syndromes and Treatment for Psychological Problems*(pp. 328-344)*.*Wiley Press. - Brackman, E., Morris, B., Andover, M. (2016). Predicting risk for suicide: A preliminary comparison of non-suicidal self-injury and the acquired capability construct in a college sample.
*Archives of Suicide Research, 20,*663-676*.*doi: 10.1080/13811118.2016.116224

(† indicates Undergraduate Research Assistant)

**Selected Conference Presentations**

- Rabasco, A., &Andover, M. (2020, November). Body disconnection as a mediator of the relationship between non-suicidal self-injury and suicide attempts among transgender and gender diverse adults. In C. Esposito-Smythers (Chair), An Examination of the Psychological Mediation Framework and its Relation to Self-Injurious Thoughts and Behaviors among LGBTQ Individuals from Early Adolescence to Adulthood. Symposium to be presented at the annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies.
- Rabasco, A., & Andover, M. (2020, November). The impact of religion on suicidal ideation and behaviors among transgender adults. In C. Esposito-Smythers (Chair), The Impact of Social Factors on the Onset and Maintenance of Self-Injurious Thoughts and Behaviors. Symposium to be presented at the annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies.
- † Wright, A., Andover, M., Kim, H., & Rabasco, A. (2020, November). Alexithymia, depression, and risky and self-injurious behaviors: The effects of describing one's emotions and emotional states on behavior. Poster to be presented at the annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies.
- Rabasco, A., & Andover, M. (2019, November). Discrimination and Victimization as Risk Factors for Suicide Attempts Among Transgender and Non-Binary Adults. In A. Rabasco (Chair), Suicidality in Underrepresented Populations. Symposium presented at the annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, Atlanta, GA.
- Jurska, J., & Andover, M. (2019, May). Rumination and gratitude as predictors of NSSI behavior. Poster presented at the 31st annual conference of the Association for Psychological Science.
- Rabasco, A., & Andover, M. (2019, April). Predictors of NSSI versatility among Transgender and gender non-binary Individuals. In S. Victor (Chair), Repeated measures designs in risk for self-injurious thoughts and behaviors. Symposium presented at the annual convention of the American Association for Suicidology, Denver, CO.
- Corcoran, V., & Andover, M. (2018, November). Non-suicidal self-injury and e-communities: Investigating the influence of online disinhibition. Poster presented at the 52nd annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, Washington, DC.
- Kim, H. J., Corcoran, V., & Andover, M. (2018, November). The effect of emotion dysregulation on distress tolerance and suicidal behavior. Poster presented at the 52nd Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, Washington, DC.
- Wren, A., & Andover, M. (2018, November). Protective factors against complex trauma among a community sample of adolescents. Poster presented at the 52nd annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, Washington, DC.
- Rabasco, A., Corcoran, V., & Andover, M. (2018, November). Dissociation and pain tolerance as moderators of the suicidal ideation and attempt relationship. Poster presented at the 52nd annual convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, Washington, DC.
- Wester, N., Lewis, S., Lloyd-Richardson, E., Whitlock, J., Andover, M., Schatten, H., Ammerman, B. (2018, June). Engaging the media about NSSI reporting and suggestions for guidelines. Panel discussion presented at the annual conference of the International Society for the Study of Self-Injury, Brussels.
- † Jenkins, G., Holman, C., Andover, M. S. (2018, April). Do regulation strategies increase the concordance between subjective and objective emotional experience in borderline personality disorder? Poster presented at the annual conference of the North American Society for the Study of Personality Disorders, New York, NY.
- Kim, H.J., & Andover, M. S. (2018, April). The interaction between dysfunctional attitudes and non-suicidal self-injury on suicide attempts. Poster presented at the annual conference of the American Association for Suicidology, Washington, DC.
- Rabasco, A., & Andover, M. S. (2018, April). Physical risk taking as a moderator of the non-suicidal self-injury and suicide attempt relationship. Poster presented at the annual conference of the American Association for Suicidology, Washington, DC.
- † Gilbert, A., & Andover, M. S. (2018, April). Risk factors for suicide in a chronic pain sample. Poster presented at the annual conference of the American Association for Suicidology, Washington, DC.
- Jurska, J., † Jenkins, G. A., † McGrath, K., † Gilbert, A., & Andover, M. S. (2017, November). Grit and gratitude as protective factors for suicidal ideation. Poster presented at the 51st Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, San Diego, CA.
- Holman, C. S., Brackman, E. H., & Andover, M. S. (2017, November). Social-cognitive biases, self-critical attributions, and interpersonal rejection in individuals with nonsuicidal self-injury. Poster presented at the 51st Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, San Diego, CA.
- Brackman, E. H., Holman, C. S., & Andover, M. S. (2017, November). Differences in adaptive and maladaptive cognitive emotion regulation strategies among individuals engaging in nonsuicidal self-injury. Poster presented at the 51st Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, San Diego, CA.
- Kelly, C., & Andover, M. S. (2017, November). Reduced reward learning predicts blunted emotional reactivity at higher levels of depressive symptoms. Poster presented at the 51st Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, San Diego, CA.
- Holman, C. S., & Andover, M. S. (2016, October). Subjective and objective measures of affect and information processing during a continuous painful proxy for non-suicidal self-injury. In A. Tsypes (chair), Understanding complexity: Using multiple levels of analysis to improve the transdiagnositic understanding and treatment of suicidal thoughts and behaviors across the lifespan. Symposium presented at the 50th Annual Convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, New York, NY.