https://www.fordham.edu/academics/faculty/faculty-senate/faculty-senate-committees/committee-on-student-experience

|
**Non-Voting Members**: Office of the Provost’s Representative - Jonathan Crystal, Vice-Provost Chief Diversity Officer – Raphael Zapata, Special Assistant to the President for Diversity, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Chief Diversity Officer Division of Student Affairs – Michele Burris, Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Office of Mission Integration and Planning – Julie Gafney, Executive Director, Center for Community Engaged Learning - Rose Hill
**Replace current 4-06.08(e) with the following:**
**Committee on Student Experience**. The Committee on Student Experience shall enhance the culture of the campus and ensure the education of the whole person so central, for meaningful collaboration between representatives of the Faculty and the Division of Student Affairs, the Office of the Provost, and the Office of Mission Integration and Planning on issues related to the student experience. The committee shall consist of eleven faculty members appointed by the Faculty Senate, with five members representing Arts and Sciences, two members from the Gabelli School of Business, and one each from the Graduate School of Religion and Religious Education, the Law School, the Graduate School of Education, and the Graduate School of Social Service. Members from Arts and Sciences and the Gabelli School of Business shall be selected in such a way as to ensure that the concerns of both >undergraduate and graduate students, as well as the concerns of students at all campuses, are represented. In addition, the Division of Student Affairs, the Office of the Provost, and the Office of Mission Integration and Planning will each designate one representative to serve as a non-voting member of the committee. The committee will also extend an invitation to the Chief Diversity Officer to designate a representative to participate in the committee's work. The committee members will serve terms of three years. Voting members may serve in up to two consecutive terms and must take a minimum one-term break before serving again. Members of any area of the university may be invited to attend meetings as non-voting members as discussion demands.
|