https://www.fordham.edu/academics/research/libraries-and-collections/journals-published-at-fordham/traditio/review-process

# Traditio Review Process

*Traditio* accepts submissions on a rolling basis; there is no deadline for submission to a particular volume. The review process takes 4-6 months on average, but may be shorter or longer, depending on circumstances, including the responsiveness of reviewers and authors. The review process comprises several stages, as follows:

- Members of the editorial board review every submission and recommend one of the following courses of action, which the executive editor will communicate with the author within a few weeks of receiving your article: (1) a submission that meets or exceeds the journal’s standards will be sent out for double-blind peer review by two field specialists; (2) a submission that does not meet the journal’s standards but has the potential to do so will be returned to the author with recommendations for revisions to be undertaken before we can send the submission out for peer review; and (3) a submission that does not meet the journal’s standards will be returned to the author without recourse to peer review and will not be considered for publication. Articles are commonly returned to authors for revision or rejected at this stage for the following reasons: they are not relevant to the journal’s fields of research; they are inordinately long or inappropriate in tone; they do not meet professional standards; and/or they are not expressed in idiomatic English.
- The second stage of the review process is double-blind peer review, which can take three months or more to complete. With the help of the editorial board, the executive editor will select and solicit evaluations from two field specialists. The executive editor will share the two external reports with the author and advise them how to proceed. At this stage, articles are either (a)
**accepted with minor revisions**with no need for further external review; (b)**invitation to revise**; or (c)**rejected**based on criticisms or concerns voiced by the external reviewers. - Articles in the second category (
**invitation to revise**) are returned to the author, who is invited to undertake the revisions suggested by the external reviewers. When those revisions are complete, the author can resubmit the revised article along with a short report that details how they have revised their article in light of the two external reports. One of the two external readers will review the revised article and make a recommendation for publication, further revision, or rejection. Please note that the editorial board reserves the right to reject any submission at any time during the review process. - Once an article has been accepted for publication, the executive editor will share the deadline for the submission of the finished article, which should be formatted according to
*Traditio*’s house style (see the[Style Sheet](https://www.fordham.edu/academics/research/libraries-and-collections/journals-published-at-fordham/traditio/style-sheet/)), as well as the timeline for reviewing copyedits and page proofs in advance of publication.

The editorial board meets twice a year in March and September to confirm the formal acceptance of articles that have made their way successfully through the review process in the previous six months.