https://www.fordham.edu/academics/academic-resources/esl/about-us/administration

# ESL Administration

Our administrative staff, located on the third floor at 45 Columbus Avenue at Martino Hall, is your first destination when you arrive in New York. We're here to support you with the registration process and offer you guidance as you progress through the IALC language program. Are you wondering which classes you should take next? Do you need help getting a new student ID or setting up your Fordham email account? Are you looking for something interesting to do in New York, like visiting a gallery, going hiking, or going to a show? Come talk to us! We will do our best to make sure your time at the IALC is enriching, enlightening and unforgettable.

-
**Director**[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#ee849d9a8f8c828b9c868f988b808b9cae88819c8a868f83c08b8a9b)Dr. Stabler–Havener has more than 20 years of experience as a TESOL educator and administrator. He has instructed university students and led teacher education workshops in the US, China, India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Thailand. As an English Language Specialist and Senior English Language Fellow, he developed and delivered training programs for the Regional English Language Office of the US Department of State. His research focuses on educational access and affordability, and his specialties are intercultural communication, content-based instruction, language assessment, and project-based learning.

-
**Associate Director; IEP & Via Fordham Student Advisor**[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#6b01181f0a09070e19030a1d0e050e192b0d04190f030a06450e0f1e)Dr. Jo has been teaching English to linguistically and culturally diverse students (K-12, post-secondary, adult) in all levels for more than two decades. She holds a doctorate in Curriculum and Instruction, and three MA degrees in TESL, TEFL, and Educational English Language. Her specialties include intercultural communication, second language acquisition theories and methodologies, multicultural education, educational technologies, functional linguistics approach, assessment, service learning project, English for Academic/Specific Purposes, Literacy, iBT TOEFL, and Business English.

-
**Assistant Director**[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#8de7eceee8fbe8fee1e2f7eccdebe2ffe9e5ece0a3e8e9f8)Yimeng joined the IALC in 2019 as a faculty member, teaching ESL and digital literacy. She now serves in an administrative role, managing a grant-funded community ESL program while also recruiting and advising international students for other IALC programs. Holding an MS in TESOL from Fordham University’s Graduate School of Education (GSE), she is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Fordham’s Innovation in Curriculum and Instruction (ICI) program. Her research explores ESL students’ perceptions and experiences with technology in language learning, examining how digital tools intersect with innovative pedagogical approaches to foster equity, engagement, and multicultural inclusivity in diverse classrooms.

-
**Senior Executive Secretary/ DSO**[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#8ae1ebf9f9e3efcaece5f8eee2ebe7a4efeeff)Annette holds an MA in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages and a BA in East Asian Studies. She joined the IALC in 2018 as a faculty member and transitioned to an administrative role at the IALC. She assists students with registration, plans workshops and cultural excursions for students, and co-creates content for the IALC's Instagram page. She is also an International Student Advisor and is excited to advise incoming international students in their transition to Fordham University and the US.