https://www.fordham.edu/academics/centers-and-institutes/fordham-center-for-cybersecurity/programs

# Cybersecurity Programs

Fordham University has several cybersecurity related programs at both the graduate and the undergraduate levels. Here are snapshots of some of our programs.

## Graduate Programs

[Master of Science in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-cybersecurity/)

This is our highly-focused and most professional cybersecurity program.

[Master of Science in Computer Science with an area of specialization in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-computer-science/)

In this case the students will choose their elective courses from the cybersecurity pool of courses.

[Master of Science in Data Science with an area of specialization in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-data-science/)

In this case the students will choose their elective courses from the cybersecurity pool of courses.

[Advanced Certificate for Data Science in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/graduate-programs/advanced-certificates/)[Advanced Certificate for Data Science in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/graduate-programs/advanced-certificates/artificial-intelligence-for-cybersecurity/)Skilled cybersecurity experts are essential for protecting our information systems and national infrastructure. They should possess knowledge beyond traditional methods and be proficient in handling and analyzing vast amounts of data generated by modern computing systems. The Advanced Certificate in Data Science for Cybersecurity equips individuals entering the field and cybersecurity professionals with a strong data science foundation and practical experience in addressing cybersecurity challenges.

## Undergraduate Programs

[Minor in Cybersecurity](/academics/departments/computer-and-information-science/academic-programs/undergraduate-programs/major-or-minor-in-cis/)

This minor offers comprehensive integration of problem-solving skills with rigorous theoretical background in the expanding field of cybersecurity. It provides valuable perspective for students coming from a variety of majors such as computer science, mathematics, physics or even economics, business and biology.