https://www.fordham.edu/academics/departments/languages-and-cultures/faculty/alessia-valfredini

# Alessia Valfredini

## Ph.D.

-
M.A. University of Turin, Italy


Ph.D. The Graduate School of Education, Fordham University -
After earning her MA at the University of Turin (Italy) and teaching in Italian public schools, Dr. Valfredini moved to New York and pursued a PhD in Language, Learning, and Literacy at the Graduate School of Education of Fordham University, where she's been teaching since 2004. Dr. Valfredini believes in engaged, value-based pedagogy and is invested in raising questions of identity, social justice, and racial justice in world language classrooms and curricula. She is interested in the sociocultural dimensions of language and in multilingual academic literacy.

What she likes the most about teaching is being an active part of the community that emerges in each classroom. She enjoys any collaborative interaction with her students. She values languages as a remarkable entry point to world-views and perspectives. She strives for her courses to raise important questions and for the journey spent seeking answers to be worthy and transformative.

-
Italian Community Engaged Learning: Art & Society

Introductory Italian I and II, Intensive Introductory Italian, Intermediate Italian I and II, Advanced Italian, Italian Language and Literature, Italian Conversation and Composition.

-
Publications and Presentations:For a Critical pedagogy of Genuine Commitment to All Students in Italian Studies.Studi d’Italianistica nell’Africa Australe/Italian Studies in Southern Africa (2022, Vol. 35, 1, 64-70)Reflections of and on Diversity: (Re) Discussing Course Materials.In Gibby, S., and Tamburri, A. (Eds.), Diversity in Italian Studies, (177-192). Calandra Institute, Diversity in Italian Studies (2021).What’s in a book? A social justice approach to FL textual contents (and discontents).Co-authored with Chiara Fabbian and Emanuela Zanotti Carney. In Dupuy, B., and McNichols, K. (Eds.), Pathways to paradigm change: Critical examinations of prevailing discourses and ideologies in second language education. AAUSC (2019).Developing cultural literacy: The contrastive study of TV advertisements.The Journal of Language Teaching and Technology (2018, Issue 1, 2-14)(Trans) formative by Design: Curricula for 21st Century Citizenship. Textbook Content and Cultural (Mis) RepresentationsPresenter In absentia. Co-presenters: Chiara Fabbian and Emanuela Zanotti CarneyItalian Language and Culture Conference: Innovation in Italian Programs and PedagogyGeorgetown University, Washington D.C. (October 26, 2019)Fostering a Culture of Diversity: Classroom, Curriculum, and Institutional contextPresenter, Roundtable “Fostering Diversity in the Italian Classroom and Beyond"NeMLA 50th Anniversary Convention, Washington, D.C. (March 21-24, 2019)Effective Course Design for L2 Writing DevelopmentPresenter, Roundtable “Crossing the Intermediate Border: Towards Advanced Writing Competency”NeMLA 50th Anniversary Convention, Washington, D.C. (March 21-24, 2019)Reflections of and on Diversity: (Re) Discussing Course MaterialsPresenter, The Calandra Institute Symposium on “Diversity in Italian Studies: Race/Ethnicity, Gender, Sexuality, Disability Studies, Class” (January 17-18, 2019)The TILCA paper was forthcoming but should now be 2018.
Preparing for life and career in the 21st Century: A Role for Italian courses from a multilingual, multicultural, interdisciplinary, and critical perspectiv TILCA Journal - Teaching Italian Language and Culture Annual (forthcoming)

An interdisciplinary, multicultural, multilingual, critically-engaged take on Italian conversation and compositionPresenter, Italian Language and Culture Conference: Innovation in Italian Programs and PedagogyGeorgetown University, Washington D.C. (October 21, 2017)Nutella a colazione: Examining cultural representations in commercialsPresenter, NeMLA Annual ConventionJohns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD (March 23-26, 2017)Teaching 21st century skills through collaborative multimodal writingCo-Presenter with Dr. Kathleen LaPenta, ACTFL American Council on the Teaching of Foreign LanguagesBoston, MA (November 18-20, 2016)A study on the impact of contextual elements on the internal resources that mediate writingPresenter, SSLW, Symposium on Second Language WritingArizona State University, Tempe (AZ) (October 19-22, 2016)Laurie: A case study of undergraduate writing across languagesPresenter, NYS TESOL Annual ConferenceWhite Plains, NY (November 13-14, 2015)Studying the process of writing in a foreign language: An overview of the methodsPublished in the Journal of Language Teaching and Research (June 2015, issue 5)Conversation and composition, redesignedPresenter, ACTFL American Council on the Teaching of Foreign LanguagesSan Antonio, TX (November 21-23, 2014)Undergraduate academic writing across languages: A sociocultural studyPresenter, SSLW, Symposium on Second Language WritingArizona State University, Tempe (AZ) (November 13-15, 2014)Providing effective feedback to student writing: Contexts & purposesPresenter, IUP Spring Methodology Conference on Foreign Language TeachingIndiana University of Pennsylvania, Blairsville, PA (April 25, 2014)Teaching foreign language composition in the 21st centuryPresenter, ACTFL American Council on the Teaching of Foreign LanguagesPhiladelphia, PA (November 16-18, 2012)An Italian mode of thinking: Perspectives from college foreign language writersPresenter, AERA American Educational Research Association, Vancouver, BC, CANADA (April 16-18, 2012)Cross-language relations in composition: Understanding the multilingual nature of composition coursesPublished book review, Journal of Second Language Writing (February 2012)B. Horner, M. Lu, P.K. Matsuda (Eds.), Cross-language relations in composition Southern Illinois University Press, Carbondale, IL, (2010)[http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2012.01.002](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2012.01.002)How to teach our students to be active foreign language readersPresenter, NECTFL, North East Conference for Teaching the Foreign Languages, New York, NY (April 1, 2006)