https://www.fordham.edu/fordham-college-at-rose-hill/honors-programs-societies-and-awards/honor-societies/fordham-club/members

# Fordham Club Members

**Keagan Ostop:** Co-president of Fordham Club, is a senior from West Hartford,

CT, majoring in journalism and minoring in environmental studies. Outside of academics,

Keagan is a chair for the Campus Activity Boards LIVE committee, which hosts speakers and

comedians on campus. She is also on the ultimate frisbee team, writes for the Ram, has been in

shows with the Mimes and Mummers and FET, and is a part of the new student orientation

team. She is also a member of the National Society of Leadership and Success, the Lambda Pi

Eta honors society, and Phi Kappa Phi honors society. Outside of school, Keagan interns at

CNBC Select. After graduation, Keagan hopes to go into the broadcast journalism field. She is

incredibly grateful for her time at Fordham and is excited to give back through Fordham Club

this year. Roll Rams!

**Mackenzie Noonan:** Co-president of Fordham Club, is a senior from Ridgefield, Connecticut, pursuing a B.A. in International Political Economy and minoring in both Philosophy and Economics on the pre-law track. Outside of academics, she acts as President of the Rose Hill Society, Senior Ball Coordinator for Senior Week Committee, and a Captain for New Student Orientation. She is also a member of both Omicron Delta Epsilon, the Economics Honors Society, and Sigma Iota Rho, the International Studies Honors Society. In past years, she has also acted as a First-Year Formation Mentor to help new students smoothly transition into their first semester at Fordham. On campus, she has worked as a student employee in Walsh Library and now works in the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Mackenzie is currently working as a regulatory compliance analyst at Webster Bank. She hopes to attend law school in the coming years and pursue a career as an in-house counsel. Her time at Fordham has been invaluable. She is grateful for the opportunity to give back to the University and continue to form new friendships during her last year!

**Abby Hartlieb** is a senior majoring in International Studies with a minor in Peace and Justice Studies. She leads the Leading Women of Tomorrow club as President and is an active member of Dean's Council, Committee on Sexual Misconduct, Humanitarian Student Ambassadors, Sigma Xi, Sigma Iota Rho, and Fordham Club. She has also led her residence halls as President of Finlay and Loschert in the Residence Hall Association, and served on the Executive Board of Fordham Dance Marathon for three years. Abby is a Freshman Orientation Leader and also works within the Athletics Department. She is currently writing her senior thesis that was inspired by her undergraduate independent research project her freshman year focusing on period poverty and girls' education in New York City. Off campus, Abby is a Red Bull and

Margaritaville University ambassador!

**Ahmed Elsayed** is a senior at Fordham University majoring in Biology with a minor in Economics on the pre-med track. Originally from Long Island, NY, Ahmed serves as Vice President of the Arabic Club, CPA of OMA’s MENA Committee, Logistics Analyst of the Muslim Students Association, and a member of Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Honor Society. Academically, Ahmed is involved in inorganic chemistry and crystallography research, having co-authored a publication on mixed-valence copper cyanide polymers. He has presented his research at multiple national conventions and is set to present at IFORE ‘24 in Washington, DC. Over the summer, he received an ACS Recognition Award for his Oral Presentation at the 71st Annual Undergraduate Symposium. He has gained extensive clinical experience through internships at both Cornell Medicine and Mount Sinai, where he further developed his skills in patient care and medical research. In addition to his academic and clinical pursuits, Ahmed is a semiprofessional soccer player, passionate about the intersection of exercise and medicine, with a particular interest in cardiology and sports medicine. He is currently an active volunteer with organizations such as the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society and the Alzheimer’s Association. After graduation, Ahmed plans to attend medical school to pursue his goal of becoming a cardiologist. As a member of the Fordham Club, he is committed to addressing and highlighting health disparities in the Bronx.

**Aidan Briggs** is a senior in the Fordham College at Rose Hill, from Lynnfield, Massachusetts. She is pursuing a double major in Psychology and English as well as a minor in Marketing. Outside of academics, Aidan has been serving as the Orientation Coordinator for Staff Training and Development for Fordham's New Student Orientation for the past year. She is also the Music Director for the Fordham Satin Dolls, where she has been lucky enough to lead the group in recording their second studio album. Aidan is looking forward to taking on the role of the Executive Chair of the Rose Hill Society next semester, where she has contributed as the Communications Lead for two consecutive years. She is also a member of Sigma Tau Delta, the English Honors Society, and is anticipating completing her thesis next semester!

**Amy Herd** is a senior at Fordham University from Bethlehem, PA, and is pursuing an International Studies and History double major on the Pre-Law Track. She currently serves as the President and Co-Editor-in-Chief of the Fordham Political Review. She is also a member of the Fordham Honors Program and the Mannion (History Honors) Society, a Senior Editor for the Fordham Undergraduate Law Review, as well as President of the Fordham Ukrainian Society. In her free time, she enjoys watching movies, exploring musical genres, and reading speculative fiction.

**Ava Coogan** is a double major in political science and communications and media studies, on the pre-law track. Ava is currently the co-chair of Fordham Student Alumni Ambassadors and she served as the 55th and 56th Executive Vice President of Fordham's United Student Government. She is also a member of the Club Tennis Team and a Student Manager for Fordham Football. Ava has had a few internships in the political field working for the NYS Senate counsel and a local congresswoman. She is planning on attending law school after graduation.

**Brandon Ortweinis** is a double major in Interdisciplinary Mathematics/Economics and International Political Economy. On campus, he is a University Ambassador with the Rose Hill Society and student worker with the Study Abroad Office. He is thrilled to be working with the Fordham Club to make positive impact upon Fordham in his last year.

**Colleen Sherry** is a Fordham College at Rose Hill senior from Great Falls, VA, double majoring in International Political Economy and Global Public Health with a minor in Economics. On campus, she is the Chief of Medical Operations for Fordham EMS (FUEMS) and previously served as the EMT Training Coordinator her junior year. Colleen is also the current Vice Chair of the FCRH Dean’s Council, the Student Representative to the Fordham College Alumni Association (FCAA) Board, and is a member of the Alpha Sigma Nu and Sigma Iota Rho honor societies. This past year, Colleen participated in the Undergraduate Summer Research Program (SRP) with a grant from the Sociology Department to conduct research on population intervention targets for mobile medicine. She is currently writing her Honors Thesis on the relationship between preventable Emergency Department Use and geography in New York. Outside of Fordham, Colleen works as a Case Manager and Health Advocate for the Community Service Society of New York, where she assists clients in navigating health insurance issues, and is co-authoring a study with the St. Barnabas Hospital Social Emergency Medicine research team. After graduation, Colleen hopes to obtain an MPH/PhD in Epidemiology.

**Connor Larson** is a senior majoring in International Political Economy and minoring in Computer Science from Milford, Connecticut. Connor has held various E-Board positions on Fordham’s Model United Nations team since his sophomore year, and will serve as the President for the Spring 2025 semester. Outside of Model United Nations, Connor has spent time on the Dean’s Council, the USG Senate, Club Basketball, and is currently the Treasurer of Alternative Investments Club. Connor is currently an intern at a campaign finance consulting firm, and was a Senior Staffer on a local state senate campaign this summer. He plans to continue his career in politics post-graduation.

**Elizabeth Volk** (she/her) is a senior from Cincinnati, Ohio majoring in Biological Sciences and minoring in Psychology and Bioethics. At Fordham, she is the secretary of the Theatrical Outreach Program, a peer reviewer for the Fordham Undergraduate Research Journal and a member of the Mimes and Mummers, Fordham Experimental Theater, Fordham Backstage, and Alpha Sigma Nu. She has directed and stage managed multiple shows on campus. Outside of classes, she works as a Conservation Education Fellow at the Queens Zoo and will gladly share animal facts when asked. She also loves to read and crochet in her free time. After graduation, she hopes to continue working in conservation education or zookeeping.

**Emma Kim** is a senior majoring in Economics and English on the pre-law track. She is from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. On campus, Emma is the co-president of the Pre-Law Society and vice president of Korean Students Association. During her time at Fordham, she has also been involved in United Student Government’s Diversity Action Coalition as programming head, The Fordham Ram as news editor, and the Fordham Undergraduate Law Review as a staff writer. She is a member of the honor societies of Phi Kappa Phi, Alpha Chi Omicron, and on the Dean’s List. Outside of Fordham, she is working at a law firm in Manhattan and hopes to pursue law after graduation.

**Grace Galbreath** is a senior at Fordham College Rose Hill studying Communication & Culture and Journalism. She has been an active member of The Fordham Ram since her freshman year, serving as a columnist, staff writer, and the Volume 105 Assistant News Editor. As a sophomore and junior, Grace worked in the news department of Fordham’s radio station, WFUV 90.7. Now, Grace is secretary of Fordham’s chapter of Lambda Pi Eta, an active member of the Fordham Jetes, and an avid intramural sports athlete. Outside of Fordham she works at the New York Hall of Science as a Digital Marketing Intern. As a member of Fordham Club, Grace hopes to improve student’s academic experience and encourage student participation.

**Indira Kar** is a senior at Fordham University majoring in International Studies and minoring in Theology and Religious Studies and American Studies on the pre-law track. She is from St. Louis, Missouri. At Fordham, Indira has been involved with Urban Plunge all four years, participating as a freshman and serving as an Urban Plunge Assistant, Senior Captain for Rose Hill, and UPA Support Captain in the following years. She is also a copy editor and contributing writer for The Fordham Ram. Indira is also a member of Alpha Sigma Nu and on the Dean’s List. Last fall, Indira studied abroad in Granada, Spain at the University of Granada’s Centro de Lenguas Modernas, where she explored Spanish language and culture and volunteered with Fundación Albihar to mentor elementary students at a local school. For the past three years, Indira has been an intern at Khazaeli Wyrsch LLC, one of the leading civil rights and immigration law firms in the St. Louis metro region. After graduation, Indira hopes to pursue a career in law.

**James Haddad** is majoring in International Political Economy with a concentration in

American Catholic Studies. After graduation I hope to work in diplomacy either with the US Department of State or the United Nations. At Fordham I am involved with Campus Ministry as a student worker as well as Co-Captain of the Gaelic Football team and I am very excited to now be a member of Fordham Club!

**Joe DaProcida** is a Senior studying International Studies and Political Science at Fordham Rose Hill! I'm studying to be a lawyer and am most interested in environmental issues. I'm also the Vice President of Student Life here at Fordham Rose Hill, and I have a deep focus on improving the mental health of students through programming and events to allow students to have some fun despite their difficult course load.

**Jordan Gomes** is a senior majoring in Political Science and minoring in History. She is from Sandy Hook, Connecticut. On campus, Jordan is a third-year Resident Assistant and currently works with the first-year Manresa Scholars of Loyola Hall and additionally serves as the Operations Manager for the Office for Student Involvement, a role she stepped into during her fourth year with OSI. Outside of Fordham, Jordan works with first through third graders at an elementary school in Gramercy and has worked for six years as a gun violence prevention advocate. In her advocacy work, Jordan works primarily with children and young adults interested in engaging in community advocacy and helps build support networks between communities and individuals affected by gun violence across the nation. Jordan is also a former White House intern, having spent the summer of 2024 with the Office of Presidential Personnel. She additionally worked her junior year as a Constituent Services Fellow and later as Correspondence Manager with Representative Ritchie Torres. In her free time she loves to read (historical horror and fiction, broadly) and to hike. She hopes to someday visit all sixty-three National Parks and considers hiking the Camino de Santiago this past May her most rewarding hiking experience thus far (and plans to return to the Camino after graduation). Jordan plans to pursue a career in public policy after receiving her Bachelor’s this May.

**Katie Baughman** is from Kansas City, Missouri. At Fordham College Rose Hill, she majors in English and minors in Russian. She is currently Co-Editor-in-Chief of the Fordham Undergraduate Research Journal, is involved in the Fordham Experimental Theater’s poetry group, and works as an English TA for the Gabelli Ground Floor class. She is also a member of Fordham’s chapters of Sigma Xi, Alpha Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Phi, Sigma Iota Rho, and Sigma Tau Delta. This past summer, she conducted research for a creative project through the Fordham Summer Research Program and interned in development at the Poetry Society of New York. After graduation, she hopes to go into law or creative writing.

**Kiri Kenman** is a senior from Tucson, Arizona studying International Political Economy and English with a minor in Business Administration and a concentration in American Catholic Studies. During her time at Fordham, she served as the Co-Chair of the Special Events Committee of the Campus Activities Board, during which she planned Fordham Rose Hill's Family Weekend and the Spring Weekend Carnival. She also served as the Vice Chair of the United Student Government's Student Experience committee and is involved in New Student Orientation and Fordham's Ballet club, the Jetés. Additionally, she is an active member of the Alpha Sigma Nu Jesuit Honor Society, a former Matteo Ricci Scholar, and is pursuing an honors thesis with the English department. Last spring, she had the opportunity to study abroad in Granada, Spain. Over the past two years, she has worked in Fordham's Office of Undergraduate Admissions and is a current English teaching assistant for Gabelli's & "Ground Floor" class. As a 2023 recipient of Fordham's Initiative on Migrants, Migration, & Human Dignity Grant, she had the opportunity to intern for the humanitarian organization Humane Borders of Southern Arizona in her hometown, which provided water to migrants traveling on foot in the Sonoran Desert.

**Lauren Walczyk** is a senior at Fordham College at Rose Hill majoring in Political Science and Sociology on the pre-law track. She has worked at Fordham University’s very own Walsh Library for four years, and currently serves as the Treasurer of MODE Magazine and Public Affairs Director of the Fordham Political Review. Previously, she volunteered to help organize Fordham’s Out of the Darkness Walk to support the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention as part of her time as Vice President of Operations in the United Student Government. Lauren has thoroughly enjoyed her time working in the public sector, both at the federal level for the U.S. Department of Transportation and at the local level for Loudoun County’s Department of Economic Development. She hopes to continue to advocate for systemic mental health and substance use disorder improvements in public policy.

**Leila Scaramella **is from Moorestown, New Jersey. I am a Biological Sciences major on the

Pre-Health track. I work as a lab assistant for the introductory biology labs for the biological sciences department at Rose Hill, and am a tutor for biology, cell biology, genetics, and organic chemistry. Working as a researcher for Dr. James Ciaccio’s organic chemical synthesis laboratory, I help modify and create experiments to be performed by the undergraduate organic chemistry labs to help their studies in the field. As a peer mentor for the Peer Connection Program, I mentor underclassmen in the pre-health professions program at Rose Hill, helping them adjust to college as well as the associated demands of pre-health. I have spent two summers volunteering and being a research assistant at Cooper University Hospital. I have also spent two summers working as a legal intern for Connor, Weber & Oberlies. I am hoping to attend medical school with the intent of becoming a cardiologist.

**Mark Cubi **is a senior from the Bronx, New York. He is majoring in Mathematics & Computer Science. At Fordham, Mark is a member of the Diversity Action Coalition and has served as the head of their Bronx Appreciation Week subcommittee. He is also an EMT at Fordham University EMS and is a member of the Ultimate Frisbee club! In the past, he has worked as a senior week volunteer and orientation leader. He is a member of the Alpha Sigma Nu Honors Society. As a former commuter, he hopes to work on initiatives that help strengthen the connection between commuters and residents at Fordham, while also encouraging the Fordham community to engage with the Bronx.

**Mary** **Biggs** is a senior Biochemistry major with a Mathematics minor from Valparaiso, Indiana. She is involved in research in Dr. Ipsita Banerjee's Biochemistry and Bionanotechnology Lab, where she studies naturally-derived bioactive peptide molecules for cancer targeting applications. In association with this work, Mary has seven publications, including a first-author article. Last year, she was awarded a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship as well as a Len Blavatnik STEM Research Fellowship in support of her research. Outside of classes and research, Mary has been a TA for multiple chemistry courses and serves as a STEM tutor and mentor. Mary also volunteers at Fordham’s Calder Center, contributing to plant science and land management projects. After graduation, Mary hopes to pursue a PhD in plant biology and build a career in plant biochemistry research. In her free time, Mary loves figure skating, spending time outside, and reading.

**Nadia Blouin** is a senior at Fordham College Rose Hill from South Plainfield, NJ. She is double majoring in History and American Studies with a minor in French and a concentration in American Catholic Studies on the Pre-Law track. She is currently in the process of writing her senior thesis for the American Studies department on American journalism in the early Soviet Union, specifically concerning its coverage of the Holodomor. On campus, she is the Business Administrator for the Fordham Undergraduate Law Review (FULR) and Member at Large for the Fordham Debate Society (FDS). In addition to Business Administrator, Nadia has written on modern day voting rights violations for FULR's Volume V, Issue 2. Nadia has represented FDS at the World Universities Debating Championship (WUDC) in 2023-24 in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and 2024-25 in Panama City, Panama. Nadia also volunteers at the Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church with the Grupo de Mujeres Latinas. This past summer, she served as a Judicial Intern in the Eastern District of New York. In her free time, she enjoys reading, crochet, and going for walks in the Botanical Garden.

**Saisha Islam** is a senior from the Bronx, New York, majoring in biology and minoring in English. Saisha is an EMT in Fordham University EMS (FUEMS) and serves as the Opinion Editor for the Fordham Ram. She works as a STEM Peer Connection Program (PCP) leader to help mentor incoming freshman interested in the pre-health curriculum and guide them to resources and as a tutor for Organic Chemistry, General Chemistry, Introductory Biology, and Genetics. Saisha is in the Sigma Xi Scientific Honors Society and Alpha Sigma Nu and likes to volunteer at Part of the Solution (POTS). Saisha also participates in glioblastoma research on campus in Dr. Ipsita Banerjee's lab and chronic kidney disease research off campus at Albert Einstein College of Medicine with Dr. Matthew K. Abramowitz. After graduation, Saisha hopes to attend medical school in the future.

**Sarah Hurd** is a senior at Fordham College, Rose Hill double majoring in American Studies and History, with a minor in English; she is currently writing her thesis project for the American Studies major. Along with her academics, she is an active member of Fordham University's Model United Nations team, serving for a second semester on their Executive Board as a Director of Training. She has had the pleasure of competing with the team since the fall of her sophomore year; her work has contributed to the teams epic rise from a top 75 team to ranking 16th in North America at the end of last year. This past spring, she took a hiatus from MUN to study abroad in Granada, Spain. This amazing experience inspired her to become more involved with Study Abroad, and she has recently begun a position in the Office of International and Study Abroad Programs at Fordham. Sarah also had the privilege of interning at the Philadelphia Museum of Art this past summer, and hopes to continue to gain experience in a variety of fields as she pursues her career path. After graduation, she plans to begin her career in public service as she prepares for graduate school. She is thrilled to be a member of Fordham Club, and to pursue initiatives related to community and public service in The Bronx.

**Sophia Ghelardini** is a senior from Austin, Texas, majoring in Integrative Neuroscience with a concentration in Cellular & Molecular Neuroscience, and minoring in Political Science and Psychology. She is the Director of Administrative Operations of Fordham University EMS and works as an EMT and ambulance driver. Sophia is also a Pre-Health Mentor, a member of the Pedro Arrupe Leadership Council, and a Manresa Scholar. She currently serves as the President of the Integrative Neuroscience Student Association, the Publicist for Fordham’s Saving Mothers Chapter, and the Senior Resident Assistant of Martyrs Court. Sophia is a research assistant in Fordham’s Memory & Aging Lab and is currently working on a research project under Dr. Karen Siedlecki looking at Adverse Childhood Experiences and Autobiographical Memory. After graduation, Sophia hopes to get a Master’s in Public Health and attend medical school, with the goal of working in pediatric medicine.

**Tyler Norrie** is studying Mathematics and Economics. He is from a military family and has lived across the country due to that. On campus, he is involved with the Outdoors Club, part of the club swim team, a member of the FCRH Dean's council, and participated in New Student Orientation as a student leader.

**Tylese Rideout** is a senior at Fordham University majoring in English and minoring in African American studies on the Pre-Law Track. She is originally from Peachtree City, GA. At Fordham, Tylese is the President of ASILI: Black Student Alliance, a Student Worker at the Office of Multicultural Affairs, and a Staff Writer on the Fordham Undergraduate Law Review. Her legal research focuses on Hair Discrimination in the workplace and advocating for the passing of the C.R.O.W.N (Create a Respectful and Open World for Natural Hair) Act on the federal level. Some of her previous/current Internships include: Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis’ Office as a Domestic Violence Intern and Liberty Coca-Cola Beverages as a Public Affairs and Communications Intern. Tylese plans on attending law school after graduation, and hopes to work in education law. She is passionate about eliminating educational disparities for youth in low-income areas. Her long term goal is to fully fund and open a school one day. In her free time, Tylese enjoys reading contemporary literature and participating in long distance races. Proudly, Tylese is a University of Georgia Bulldogs football fan (Go Dawgs!). Through Fordham Club, Tylese intends to further advocate for community service initiatives on campus and give back to the Fordham and Bronx community.

**Vesa Prevalla** is a senior pursuing a double major in Sociology and Spanish with a minor in Peace and Justice Studies on the Pre-Law Track. From Watertown, Connecticut, she has enjoyed getting involved in NYC through the Manresa Scholars Program, the West Wing ILC, CCEL classes, and in Urban Plunge as an Education and Formation Captain and UPA. After serving as a Dance Captain for Fordham's Dance Co-Op, Vesa is now the club's Secretary and Social Chair. She interned with the Council on American-Islamic Relations in their Communications Department last spring, and currently balances her position at Fordham Law Library with her internship for a Manhattan-based law firm. Vesa studied abroad in Granada, Spain in the fall of her junior year, where she explored Spanish-Islamic culture and volunteered at a local school with Fundación Albihar. Vesa is also a member of Fordham's chapter of Alpha Sigma Nu and has recently joined Fordham Undergraduate Law Review. As a member of the Fordham Club, Vesa looks forward to widening paths to meaningful engagement between Fordham students and the Bronx. After graduation, Vesa hopes to continue working in New York City in preparation for law school.

**WIlliam Nelson** is a Senior on the pre-law track with a double-major in English and History, and a concentration in American Catholic Studies. I am interested in studying corporate law after graduation and hope to stay in New York City. I am an active member of the Fordham Undergraduate Law Review, the Curran Center for Catholic Studies, and Alpha Sigma Nu. I also enjoy weightlifting, playing chess, traveling, and listening to the Weeknd's music.