https://www.fordham.edu/gabelli-school-of-business/faculty/academic-areas/law-and-ethics/law-and-ethics-recent-research

# Law and Ethics Recent Research

The Gabelli School of Business law and ethics faculty consistently share their research with the wider community by publishing in high-quality academic journals and books and participating in industry conferences. The listing below is a sample of the law and ethics area's recent research activities.

-
**Miguel Alzola**, Forthcoming, “Intentions, Loyalty, and Rewards: Normative Studies of Whistleblowing,”*Business and Professional Ethics Journal*.**Kenneth R. Davis**, Forthcoming, “A Farewell to Harms: Rethinking the Injury Requirements of Title VII,”*61 Harv. J. on Legis.***Kenneth R. Davis**, Forthcoming, “Last Rights: A Theory of Individual Impact,”*88 Brook. Rev.***Brent J. Horton**, Forthcoming, “Direct Listings and the Weakening of Investor Protections,”*50 Fla. St. U. L. Rev.***Santiago Mejia**, Forthcoming, “The Normative and Cultural Dimension of Work: Technological Unemployment as a Cultural Threat to a Meaningful Life,"*Journal of Business Ethics*.**Santiago Mejia**, Forthcoming, “Fiduciary Duties and Moral Obligations to Third Parties; a Reflection Through Shareholder Primacy,"*Research Handbook on Corporate Governance and Ethics*. -
**Mark A. Conrad**, 2022, “Fake News, Personal Attacks, and Ideological Media Run Amok – It is Time for Fairness Doctrine 2.0,”*3 21 Va. J. of Ent. & Sports L. 76.***Mark A. Conrad**, 2022, “Non-Fungible Tokens, Sports and Intellectual Property Law Issues – A Case Study Applying Copyright, Trademark and Right of Publicity Law to a Non-Traditional Ownership Vehicle,”*32 J. of Legal Aspects of Sport 1.***Mark A. Conrad**, 2022,*Epic Games v. Apple, Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, Nos. 21-16506 & 21-16695*. Brief by 38 Law, Economics, and Business Professors in Support of Appellant/Cross-Appellee.**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief of Amici Curiae Former SEC Officials and Law Professors in Support of Defendants-Appellants: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 22-484 (2d Cir. May 18, 2022)*.**Santiago Mejia**, 2022, “Socratic Ignorance and Business Ethics,"*Journal of Business Ethics,*175.3, 537–553.**Santiago Mejia**and Joshua A. Skorburg, 2022, “Malleable Character: Organizational Behavior Meets Virtue Ethics and Situationism,"*Philosophical Studies,*179.12, 3535–3563.**Santiago Mejia**and Dominique Nikolaidis, 2022, “Through New Eyes: Artificial Intelligence, Technological Unemployment, and Transhumanism in Kazuo Ishiguro’s Klara and the Sun,"*Journal of Business Ethics,*178.1, 303-306.**Santiago Mejia**and A-J Aronstein, 2022, “Why We Need Humanities in Business: Complexity, Uncertainty, and Ambiguity,"*Humanizing Business: What Humanities Can Say to Business,*473–487. -
**Mark A. Conrad**, 2021,*NCAA v. Alston, Supreme Court of the United States, Nos. 20-512, 20-520 -- Brief by 65 Professors of Law, Business, Economics and Sports Management in Support of Respondents*(submitted March 9, 2021). Brief cited in opinion, ___U.S. ___ at p. 25.**Mark A. Conrad**, 2021, “The Covid-19 Pandemic, The Empowering Olympic, Paralympic and Amateur Athletes Act, and the Dawn of a New Age of U.S. Olympic Reform,” 31*J. of Legal Aspects of Sports.***Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Petitioners: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 21-3105*(2d. Cir. Dec. 29, 2021).**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Petitioners: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 20-222*(Sup. Ct. Feb. 1, 2021).**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2021, “The Invisible Ban: Negligent Disparate Impact,”*70 Am. U. L. Rev. 1879.***Brent J. Horton**, 2019, “The "Significant Social Policy Issue" Exception To The Business Judgment Rule,”*52 Seton Hall L. Rev. 59.***Kevin T. Jackson**, 2021, “Fostering a Culture of Academic Integrity in Our Business School,”*Public Discourse*(September 7).**Santiago Mejia**, 2021, “Managers Should Satisfy Only the Ethically Permissible Preferences of Shareholders,"*Promarket*(Oct 12).**Santiago Mejia**, 2021, “The Peculiar Nature of the Duty to Help During a Pandemic,"*Business Ethics Journal Review,*9.2, 8–13.**Santiago Mejia**, 2021, “Which Duties of Beneficence Should Agents Discharge on Behalf of Principals? A Reflection Through Shareholder Primacy,"*Business Ethics Quarterly,*31.3, 421–449. -
**Miguel Alzola**, Alicia Hennig, and Edward Romar, 2020, “Virtue Ethics Between East and West,”*Journal of Business Ethics*.**Mark A. Conrad**, 2020, “Should Athletes Have Publicity Rights in Their Statistics? Daniels v. FanDuel and the Subjugation of Athletes' Statistics in the Fantasy Sports-Gambling Era,”*38 Cardozo Arts & Ent. L. Rev. 1.***Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Certiorari Petition: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 20-222*(Sup. Ct. Sept. 24, 2020).**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Petitioners: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 18-2557*(2d Cir. forthcoming May 19, 2020).**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2020, “The ‘Severe and Pervers-ive’ Standard of Sexual Harassment Law: Behold the Motivating Factor Test,”*72 Rutgers L. Rev*.**Brent J. Horton**, 2020, “Terra Incognita: Applying The Entire Fairness Standard Of Review To Benefit Corporations,”*22 U. Penn. J. Bus. L. 842.* -
**Miguel Alzola**, 2019, “Even When No One Is Watching: The Moral Psychology of Corporate Reputation,”*Business and Society*, 58(6), 1267-1301.**Mark A. Conrad**, 2019, “A New Game in Town: Disseminating Sports Content in a Net Neutrality-Less Era – the Potential Implications for the Post-Broadcasting World,”*Journal of Legal Aspects of Sports,*29(1), 1-29*.***Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Amici Curiae in Support of Petitioners: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation,*Case 18-2557 (2d Cir. February 23, 2019).**Brent J. Horton**, 2019, “Malign Manipulations: Can Google's Shareholders Save Democracy?”*54 Wake Forest L. Rev.*, 707.**Brent J. Horton**, 2019, “Spotify's Direct Listing: Is it a Recipe for Gatekeeper Failure,”*72 SMU L. Rev.*, 177.**Brent J. Horton**, 2019, “Rising to Their Full Potential: How a Uniform Disclosure Regime Will Empower Benefit Corporations*,*”*9**Harvard Business Law Review,*101.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2019, “The Mind of a Leader,” Review of Hougaard and Carter, The Mind of the Leader,*Journal of Business Ethics*, 159(3), 927-934.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2019, “Mindful Business Leadership,”*Public Disclosure*, (December).**Santiago Mejia**, 2019, “Weeding Out Flawed Versions of Shareholder Theory. A Reflection on the Moral Obligations That Carry over from Principals to Agents,"*Business Ethics Quarterly*, 29(4), 519-544.**Santiago Mejia**, 2019, “The Moral Imperatives of Humanistic Management,"*Humanistic Management Journal,*4, 155–158.**Santiago Mejia**and Dawn Lerman, 2019, “Positive Marketing, Virtue, and Happiness,"*The Routledge Handbook of Positive Communication,*151–159.Tae Wan Kim and

**Santiago Mejia**, 2019, “From Artificial Intelligence to Artificial Wisdom: What Socrates Teaches Us,”*IEEE Computer*, 52, 10. -
**Miguel Alzola**, 2018, “Decent Work: The Moral Status of Labor in Human Resource Management,”*Journal of Business Ethics*, 147(4), 835–853.**Mark A. Conrad**, 2018, “Matal v. Tam – A Victory for The Slants, a Touchdown for the Redskins, but an Ambiguous Journey for the First Amendment and Trademark Law,”*Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal*, 36.**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Petition for Permission to Appeal: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation,*Case 18-2557 (2d Cir. September 4, 2018).**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief for Former SEC Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae in Support of Petitioners: In re Barclays Bank PLC Securities Litigation,*Case 17-1209 (Sup. Ct. March 2018).**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2018, “Strong Medicine: Fighting the Sexual Harassment Pandemic,”*Ohio State Law Journal,*79, 1058-1100.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2018, “Interpreting the Virtues of Mindfulness and Compassion: Contemplative Practices and Virtue-Oriented Business Ethics,”*Humanistic Management Journal*, 3(1), 47-69.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2018, “The Cosmic Gamemaker,”*First Things*(May 3).**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2018, ““If the Dalai Lama Ran General Mills,”*Public Discourse*(December).**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2018, “Mindful Work,”*Journal of Management, Spirituality and Religion,*15(3), 277-281. -
**Miguel Alzola**, 2017, “Beware of the Watchdog. Gatekeepers and the Problem of Role Morality,”*Journal of Business Ethics,*140(4), 705-721.**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief of Amici Curiae Law Professors in Support of Petitioners: Cyan, Inc. et al., v. Beaver County Employees Retirement Fund, et al.*(Sup. Ct. September 5, 2017).**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief of Amici Curiae Law Professors and Former SEC Officials in Support of Petition for Permission to Appeal Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(f): In re Big Lots, Inc. Securities Litigation*, Case 17-303 (6th Cir. April 7, 2017).**Elizabeth Cosenza**,*Brief of Amici Curiae Law Professors and Former SEC Officials in Support of Defendants-Appellants: In re Intuitive Surgical Securities Litigation,*Case 17-80001, (9th Cir. January 17, 2017).**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2017, “The Equality Principle: How Title VII Can Save Insider Trading Law,”*Cardozo Law Review,*39, 200.**Brent J. Horton**, 2017, “In Defense of a Federally Mandated Disclosure System: Observing Pre-Securities Act Prospectuses,”*American Business Law Journal,*54(4), 743-806.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2017, “Music and Virtuosity: A Higher Vision for Business,”*Humanistic Management Journal,*2(1), 15-36. -
**Brent J. Horton**, 2016, “Modifying Fiduciary Duties In Delaware: Observing Ten Years Of Decisional Law,” 40 DEL. J. CORP. L. 921*.***Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2016, “The Persistent Problem of Multi-Forum Shareholder Litigation: A Proposed Statutory Response to Reshuffle the Deck,”*Virginia Law & Business Review*, 10 Va. L. & Bus. Rev. 413.**Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2016,*Brief for Amici Curiae Former SEC Officials and Law Professors in Support of Defendants-Appellant: In re Barclays Bank PLC Securities Litigation, Case 16-1912*(2d Cir. Aug. 1, 2016)**Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2016,*Brief of Amicus Curiae Professors and Former Commissioners and Officials of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission in Support of Defendants-Appellants: In re Petrobras Securities Litigation, Case 16-1914*(2d Cir. July 28, 2016)**Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2016,*Brief of Amici Curiae Law Professors in Support of Petitioners: Cyan, Inc. et al., v. Beaver County Employees Retirement Fund, et al.*(Sup. Ct. June 26, 2016)**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2016, “Insider Trading Flaw: A Fraud-on-the-Market Theory and Beyond,”*American University Law Review*, 66(1), 51-89.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2016, “Cosmopolitan Jurisprudence for Economic Governance,”*Society and Business Review,*11(3), 276-296.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2016, “Economy of Mutuality: Merging Financial and Social Sustainability,”*Journal of Business Ethics,*133(3), 499-517. -
**Miguel Alzola**, 2015, “Virtue, Rightness, and Virtuous Actions,”*Business Ethics Quarterly,*23(5), 287-318.**Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2015,*Brief for Amici Curiae Former SEC Officials and Law Professors in Support of Petition for Permission to Appeal: In re Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case 15-3179*(2d Cir. Oct. 14, 2015) -
**Miguel Alzola**, 2014, “La Posibilidad de la Virtud,”*Cuadernos Empresa y Humanismo*, 124: 169-229**Mark A. Conrad**, 2014, “A New First Amendment Goal Line Defense — It’s Time to Stop the Right of Publicity Offensive,” 39 N. Ohio L. Rev. 746.**Brent J. Horton**, 2014, “For The Protection of Investors And The Public: Why Fannie Mae's Mortgage-Backed Securities Should be Subject to the Disclosure Requirements Of The Securities Act of 1933,” 89 TULANE L. REV. 125.Benjamin M. Cole,

**Brent Horton**, and Ryan Vacca, 2014, “Food for Thought: Genetically Modified Seeds as De Facto Standard Essential Patents,”*University of Colorado Law Review,*85 (2), 313-375.**Elizabeth Cosenza**, 2014,*Brief for Former SEC Commissioners and Officials and Law Professors as Amici Curiae Supporting Petitioners: Halliburton Co. and David Lesar v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc., HARV. L. SCH. FORUM ON CORP. GOVERNANCE & FIN. REG.*, Jan. 14, 2014**Kenneth R. Davis**, 2014, “Arbitrating Challenges to Executive Compensation”*Cash of the Titans,*86 Temple L. Rev. 101. -
**Miguel Alzola**, forthcoming, “The virtue of integrity and the case for a virtue of organizational integrity,” in Muel Kaptein (ed.)*Research Handbook on Organizational Integrity.***Miguel Alzola**, 2022, “The Moral Character of the Leader,” George R. Goethals, Scott T Allison, Georgia J. Sorenson (eds.)*The SAGE Encyclopedia of Leadership Studies*, Sage.**Miguel Alzola**, 2022, “Business and War,” in Deborah Poff and Alex C. Michalos (eds.)*Encyclopedia of Business and Professional Ethics*, Springer.**Miguel Alzola**and A. Hennig, 2020, “Practical Wisdom in Classical Confucianism,” in Barry Schwartz, Caleb Bernacchio, César González-Cantón and Angus Robson (ed.)*Handbook of Practical Wisdom in Business and Management*, Springer.**Miguel Alzola**, 2020, “Between Kant and Hume: Aristotle on Practical Wisdom, Deliberation, and Choice,” in Barry Schwartz, Caleb Bernacchio, César González-Cantón and Angus Robson (ed.)*Handbook of Practical Wisdom in Business and Management*, Springer.**Miguel Alzola**, 2018, “Character-Based Business Ethics,” in Nancy Snow (ed.)*The Oxford Handbook of Virtue*, New York: Oxford University Press.**Miguel Alzola**, 2017, “Role duties, Role Virtues, and the Practice of Business,” in David Carr (ed.)*Cultivating Moral Character and Virtue in Professional Practice, Routledge Philosophy.***Miguel Alzola**, 2017, “The Virtues and Their Explanatory and Predictive Power,” in Alejo J. Sison (ed.)*Handbook of Virtue Ethics in Business and Management,*Springer Reference.**Miguel Alzola**, 2017, “Corporate Roles and Virtues,” in Alejo J. Sison (ed.)*Handbook of Virtue Ethics in Business and Management,*Springer Reference.**Mark A. Conrad**, 2017,*The Business of Sports: Off the Field, In the Office, On the News*, Routledge/Taylor & Francis.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2021, “Temporal Structures of Justification in the Economic Analysis of Law: Legal Philosophy and Free Will ,” P. Rona, L Zsolnai, and A. Wincewicz Price, eds.,*Words,Objects and Events in Economics: The Making of Economic Theory,*213-222. Springer**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2019, “Mindful Servant Leadership for B Corporations,” L. Bouckaert and S. van den Heuvel (eds.)*The Will to Serve: Inspiring Models of Servant Leadership and Social Entrepreneurship*, 211-233, Palgrave Macmillan.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2019, “Getting to the Heart of Compassion in Philosophy and Economic Life,” in O. Setter and L. Zsolnai (eds.)*Caring Management in the New Economy: Socially Responsible Behavior Through Spirituality*, 63-81, Chaim, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2019, “Economy of Mutuality: Equipping the Executive Mindset for Sustainable Business,” in G. Lenssen and N. Craig Smith (eds.)*Managing Sustainable Business*, 293-315, Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2018, “Time-Value in Economics,” P. Rona and L. Zsolnai, eds.,*Economic Objects and the Objects of Economics,*125-140. Cham, Switzerland: Springer.**Kevin T. Jackson**, 2017, “Economy of Mutuality,” P. Rona and L. Zsolnai, eds.*Economics as a Moral Science*, 175-197. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Nature**Kevin T. Jackson**, A. Sison, ed., 2016, “Cosmopolitan Natural Law: Discerning Legal and Moral Responsibilities of Global Business,”*Handbook of Virtue Ethics in Business and Management.*Dordrecht, NL : Springer**Kevin T. Jackson**, M. Schlag and J.A. Mercado, eds., 2016, “Epistemology in Business Education: Challenging the Ideologies,”*Free Markets with Solidarity and Sustainability: Facing the Challenge.*Washington, DC: Catholic University Press**Kevin T. Jackson**, K. Ims and L. Pedersen, 2015, “Aesthetics, Human Rights and Economic Life: Temporal Perspectives,”*Business and the Greater Good: Regaining Trust, Humanity and Purpose in the Age of Crisis Cheltenham*, UK: Edward Elgar.**Dawn Lerman, and****Santiago Mejia**, 2019, “Positive Marketing, Virtue, and Happiness,”*The Routledge Handbook of Positive Communication*. Ed. by Jose Antonio Muniz-Velazquez, and Cristina Pulido. New York: Routledge.