https://www.fordham.edu/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/about/a-message-from-the-chair

# A Message from the Chair

At Fordham Real Estate Institute (REI), we provide students with academic and applied analysis, as well as the enhanced knowledge and skills necessary to compete in the global marketplace. By offering a comprehensive range of [graduate](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/graduate-programs/), [undergraduate](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/bachelor-of-science-in-real-estate/) and [noncredit programs](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/professional-certificates-and-continuing-education/), students can choose their desired level of study and industry area to develop competencies essential for success and leadership. With input from industry thought leaders on the [REI Executive Advisory Council](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/about/executive-advisory-council/), the programs provide an array of challenging, multi-disciplinary learning opportunities that blend the best of theoretical and applied analysis, encourage experiential learning and help build lasting industry connections.

A cornerstone of the REI is its [mentorship program](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/student-experience/mentorship/) which gives master's students the opportunity to supplement classroom learning with the counsel of a respected professional. Students in the [Master of Science in Real Estate (MSRE)](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-real-estate/), [Master of Science in Real Estate Development (MSRED)](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-real-estate-development/) [Master of Science in Construction Management (MSCM)](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/academics/real-estate-institute/academics/graduate-programs/master-of-science-in-construction-management/) and Master of Science in Hospitality degree programs are connected with an experienced industry practitioner, gaining exposure to diverse disciplines such as finance, development, construction, hospitality, architecture, lending, private equity, accounting, and law. The MSRE, MSRED, MSCM, and MSH programs seek to nurture these mentorships so that they extend from the first semester of classes through to graduation and beyond.

Additionally, as part of [Fordham’s School of Professional and Continuing Studies (PCS)](/school-of-professional-and-continuing-studies/), REI is not an “academic silo.” We understand that an interdisciplinary approach to curriculum and instruction provides students with optimal learning opportunities. Thus, we present professional development programs for the spectrum of sectors within the larger real estate industry, including finance, law, design, construction, hospitality, management, brokerage, development, and others.