https://www.fordham.edu/student-life/deans-of-students-and-student-life/student-handbook/university-regulations/a---z-listing/use-of-university-space-and-space-reservations

# Student Handbook: Use of University Space and Space Reservations

Space is provided on campus for Fordham University offices, departments, and recognized student clubs and organizations to use with a prior reservation that has been requested according to timelines established by the offices managing space on campus. These spaces are reserved through the campus space reservation process.

Lounges and community spaces in the residence halls exist for the benefit of the building's resident students and their residence hall staff. The Office of Residential Life has established guidelines for their use. Registration requests for the use of residence hall spaces such as lounges, meeting spaces, or classrooms must be made in writing to the Office of Residential Life for approval and scheduling at [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection) or [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection). Clubs and organizations are not permitted to use residence hall lounges and may not conduct meetings or other events in the residence halls without permission from the Office of Residential Life via the above contacts.

For all but casual use by small numbers of individuals, outdoor areas must also be reserved. The Office for Student Involvement at Rose Hill and the Lincoln Center Conference Services must first confirm all outdoor space reservation requests and consult with the Department of Public Safety and the Vice President for Administration’s offices on all outdoor space reservation requests. Requests for use of outdoor space for demonstrations or protests must follow the relevant sections and the coordination process outlined in the Demonstration Policy.

Overnight sleep accommodations are permitted only in campus residence hall room and apartment locations assigned by the Office of Residential Life and confirmed by the University Housing or Occupancy Agreement. Overnight stay and/or sleeping in outdoor areas of campus, lounges, non-residential buildings, hallways, and other common areas is prohibited unless previously authorized by the Department of Public Safety and the Office of the Dean of Students. Structures, shelters, displays (including projected images), tarps, flags, tents, stickers, posters, and banners may not be erected, hung, or otherwise placed or affixed in any indoor or outdoor common areas of the campus without prior permission from the relevant offices noted in the Space Reservation policy and/or through the relevant sections of the Demonstration Policy and/or Posting Policy and these items may be subject to immediate removal and confiscation if not previously authorized.