https://www.fordham.edu/student-life/student-involvement/office-for-student-involvement-at-rose-hill/the-mcshane-campus-center/services

# Services in the McShane Campus Center

The information desk at the McShane Campus Center is open 7 days a week, 9 a.m. - 11 p.m. During the times the building is open, there is a building assistant available to help assist the community with their needs.

The mission of the information desk is to provide service and attention to Fordham University in an effective and caring manner. Not only does the building assistant serve as an informative source about campus activities and events, but he or she also offers secretarial and technical support to the Office for Student Involvement. Building assistants are encouraged to offer a new, fresh, and unique perspective to the office in many areas including programs and operational procedures. In return, the Office for Student Involvement offers these students a chance for leadership opportunities, the development of people skills, as well as valuable work experience. The building assistants, alongside the Office for Student Involvement, help to make the Fordham community a more informed place of education, work, and residence.

Locations and hours of building assistants during the academic year:

- Weekdays from 9 a.m. - 11 p.m.*: Located in McShane Campus Center, room 270
- Weekends from 9 a.m. - 11 p.m.*: Located in McShane Campus Center, room 270

*Please note: information desk hours may vary on holidays.

**Building Services**

**ATM Services:**ATMS are located in the first floor of the McShane Campus Center near the restrooms, the lobby of Faculty Memorial Hall, and the Walsh Library. The ATMs are independently operated.**Dining Options:**There are two main dining options available in the McShane Campus Center. For more information on the on-campus dining options, please visit[Fordham Campus Dining](http://fordham.campusdish.com/).**Locker Rentals:**[Lockers](https://fordham.universitytickets.com/)become available for rent to all undergraduate students on the first day of class at 10 a.m. The rental fee is $25 for the full academic year. Lockers are located on the lower floor level of the McShane Campus Center. These lockers are available on a first-come, first-served basis. Please Note: Locker rentals expire on the last day of classes of the Spring semester. All items must be removed from lockers before Commencement. Unclaimed items will be discarded.**Lost and Found:**If something was left in the McShane Campus Center, it may have been turned into Campus Center Operations. Please visit McShane Campus Center, room 204 to see if the item was turned in.**Metro Cards:**Metro Cards for the Subway are available at the information desk from 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Metro Cards are available for $5.80. Departments may submit a request for Metro Cards using[this form.](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScsDljaUH3FujDl5x5AgixwvajmwsGzWQgNyEPmbXZJ6ULAHw/viewform?usp=sf_link)**Movie Tickets:**Discount movie tickets are available at the information desk from 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tickets are $10.25 for AMC discount movie tickets (can also be used in AMC Loews, AMC Showplace, Cineplex Odeon, Magic Johnson and Star Theatres) and $8.50 for Regal discount movie tickets (can also be used in United Artists and Edwards Theatres). Departments may submit a request for movie tickets using[this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScsDljaUH3FujDl5x5AgixwvajmwsGzWQgNyEPmbXZJ6ULAHw/viewform?usp=sf_link).**Post Office:**The University Post Office is a fully functioning Post Office which provides the Fordham community the services to purchase stamps, money orders, envelopes, boxes, and domestic and international mail, express mail, priority mail, certified and registered mail services. Primarily the Post Office receives all inter-office and inter-campus mail as well as parcels from the major carriers such as USPS, UPS, DHL, FedEx, and others. The Post Office is located in the basement of the McShane Campus Center.**Ram Fit:**The Fordham Athletic facility, opened in October of 2012 and expanded in February 2022, formally known on campus as the “Ramskellar”, is located in the basement of the McShane Campus Center.[View more information about Ram Fit.](/student-life/safety-health-and-wellness/fitness-and-recreation/)**Vending Machine Refunds:**If someone loses money in a vending machine in the McShane Campus Center, they may visit McShane room 270 for a reimbursement of the lost funds.